# Senior Project Draft Proposal


- Logan Ferguson
  
- BS in Cybersecurity

- Dr. Sean Hayes

- Expected Graduation Date: 05/04/2024


## Problem Statement:

Many users do not take the appropriate steps to secure their online accounts, even with simply using a more complex password, but with Key Guardian, it will be easy for users to create secure passwords and check currently used passwords for security. Everyone should be able to create and store secure passwords for every online account they have and also be able to test their current passwords and identify their level of security. However, most people do not put any effort into creating secure passwords, but simply rely on easy-to-remember phrases that they do not have to write down, such as “Password123” or “qwerty”. Most are not well-educated on the importance of having a secure password for every account and do not realize that simple passwords like those can quickly be guessed or cracked and the user’s sensitive data can be stolen. Out of 56 million breached passwords in 2022, in over 110,000 of those cases “123456” was used. The second and third most used passwords were “12345” and “password” (Black, 2022). As a result, these are the passwords that threat actors will guess first, meaning that users should never use one of these simple phrases or string of numbers.

With a program that can generate secure passwords, store them, and check the security of current passwords, users can more easily safeguard their accounts without having to come up with a password and determine if it is safe to use. A user’s passwords provide the first line of defense to an online account, so if that password is long and complicated, it makes it nearly impossible to guess or crack with decryption software. Key Guardian will aid in protecting a user from hackers and make the internet a safer, more secure place.

Source:
	
    https://cybernews.com/security/weakest-passwords-2022/


## Project Description:

Key Guardian is a password generator, checker, and manager of passwords which are stored securely on a local system. This software allows the user to choose the length of a password and to generate a secure password using upper and lower case letters, numbers, and symbols. Key Guardian will check any current passwords the user may have to see if it is secure and whether or not it has been exposed in a previous data breach. The security of passwords will be checked and rated on a scale of 1 to 5, and a friendly message will prompt a description of the security scale. Lastly, the user will be able to store passwords in a local database that will be encrypted with a master key, which is generated by Key Guardian. This will be the only password that users will need to keep in a safe place to unlock the rest of their passwords. Another feature of Key Guardian is the ability for the user to enter a certain time frame for when they want to change and update their passwords. They will then be reminded when that amount of time is ending and be prompted to change the password for that account. The purpose of this software is not to just create, check, and store passwords securely, but to educate users on how to better protect their online accounts. 


## Implementation Language:
- Python


## Libraries and Packages:
- Tkinter

- customTkinter

- SQLite

- Fernet


## Personal Motivation:

Password security is something that I am passionate about because it is something that is commonly not given enough thought in the information security community. Securing one's online accounts is the first step to protecting themselves from threat actors. As a Cybersecurity student, I desire to learn more about proper password management and encryption so that I can help others easily secure their personal information. No one should have to worry about their information being stolen, which is why I am creating Key Guardian to further my own knowledge and skills and use them to make this software even better and more accessable to others.

## Future Research Efforts:

Key Guardian will be developed in the Python programming language along with a few libraries listed above in order to cerate the GUI and local database. This software is cross-platform and will be available on Windows, Mac OS, and Linux. The files will all be included in the download and the database file that stores the passwords will be created on the first execution of the program. Key Guardian is a full GUI with all functions built-in from the start. 


## Schedule:

Expected dates for deliverables:
	
- Final Proposal and Requirements Document: 	04/10/2023
- Initial GUI Design: 				08/28/2023
- GUI and Functionality:			09/18/2023
- Test Plan:					10/02/2023
- Encryption for Database:			10/30/2023
- Full GUI and Added Features:			11/13/2023
- Testing and Polishing completed:		01/29/2024
- Final Report:					03/11/2024
- Project Presentation:				04/15/2024
